Raspberry Pi  Operating Systems GeneralRaspbianRaspbian is a free operating system based on Debian optimized for the Raspberry Pi hardware. An operating system is the set of basic programs and utilities that make your Raspberry Pi run. However, Raspbian provides more than a pure OS: it comes with over 35,000 packages, pre-compiled software bundled in a nice format for easy installation on your Raspberry Pi.Website: http://www.raspberrypi.org/downloadsInitial login details:Username: pi Password: raspberry Raspbian Server EditionIt's a stripped version of Raspbian with some other packages Website: http://sirlagz.net/?p=662Initial login details: Username: root Password: rootRaspbian MinimalBased off the stripped-down Raspbian image, which simply runs a Pi with SSHd and a pretty lean set of installed packages so you can start a project small and install the bits you need.Website: http://www.pi-point.co.uk/raspbian-minimal/Initial login details: Username: pi Password: raspberrySoft-float Debian “squeeze” / “wheezy”This image is identical to the Raspbian “wheezy” image, but uses the slower soft-float ABI. It is only intended for use with software such as the Oracle JVM which does not yet support the hard-float ABI used by Raspbian.Website: http://www.raspberrypi.org/downloadsInitial login details:Username: pi Password: raspberry Debian 6The Debian distro for Raspberry Pi is the Cambridge reference filesystem, which is a fully functional Debian Squeeze installation containing LXDE (desktop) and Midori (browser); development tools; and sample code for accessing the multimedia functionality on the device.  Now replaced by Raspbian.Website: http://www.debian.org/ports/arm/Initial login details:Username: pi Password: raspberry Arch Linux ARMArch Linux ARM is based on Arch Linux, which aims for simplicity and full control to the end user. It provides a lightweight base structure that allows you to shape the system to your needs. For this reason, the Arch Linux ARM image for the Raspberry Pi does not come with a graphical user interface, though you can easily install one yourself. Please note that the Arch distribution may not be suitable for beginners.Website: http://archlinuxarm.org/Initial login details: Username: root Password: rootFedora RemixThe Raspberry Pi Fedora Remix is a Linux software distribution for the Raspberry Pi computer. It contains software packages from the Fedora Project (specifically, the Fedora ARM secondary architecture project), packages which have been specifically written for or modified for the Raspberry Pi, and proprietary software provided by the Raspberry Pi Foundation for device access.Website:    http://scotland.proximity.on.ca/raspberrypi/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: fedoraOccidentalisThe distro is based on "Wheezy" but comes with hardware SPI, I2C, one wire, and WiFi support for our WiFi adapters. It also has some things to make overall hacking easier such sshd on startup (with key generation on first boot) and  Bonjour (so you can simply ssh raspberrypi.local from any computer on the local network).Website: http://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-raspberry-pi-educational-linux-distro/Initial login details:Username: piPassword: raspberryFreeBSDFreeBSD is an advanced operating system for x86 compatible (including Pentium® and Athlon™), amd64 compatible (including Opteron™, Athlon™64, and EM64T), ARM, IA-64, PowerPC, PC-98 and UltraSPARC® architectures. It is derived from BSD, the version of UNIX® developed at the University of California, Berkeley.  Website:  http://www.freebsd.orgInitial login details:Username: rootPassword: freebsdarmNetBSDNetBSD is a free, fast, secure, and highly portable Unix-like Open Source operating system. It is available for a wide range of platforms, from large-scale servers and powerful desktop systems to handheld and embedded devices. Its clean design and advanced features make it excellent for use in both production and research environments, and the source code is freely available under a business-friendly license. NetBSD is developed and supported by a large and vivid international community. Many applications are readily available through pkgsrc, the NetBSD Packages Collection Website: http://www.netbsd.org/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: Bodhi LinuxBodhi Linux is a Linux Distribution leveraging the fast, customizable, and beautiful Enlightenment Desktop. Enlightenment coupled with a minimal set of utilities such as a browser, text editor, and package management tools form the solid foundation of Bodhi Linux.Website: http://www.bodhilinux.comInitial login details:Username: piPassword: bodhilinuxRisc OSRISC OS is a computer operating system designed in Cambridge, England by Acorn. First released in 1987, its origins can be traced back to the original team that developed the ARM microprocessor. RISC OS is owned by Castle Technology Ltd, and maintained by RISC OS Open Ltd. This version is made available free of charge to Raspberry Pi users.Website: https://www.riscosopen.org/content/Initial login details:Username: Password: Plan 9Plan 9 from Bell Labs is a free software distributed operating system. It was developed primarily for research purposes as the successor to UNIX by the Computing Sciences Research Centre at Bell Labs between the mid-1980s and 2002. Plan 9 continues to be used and developed by operating system researchers and hobbyists.Plan 9 has novel features such as the 9P protocol for accessing local and remote resources as files, union mounts, an improved proc file system, and native unicode support throughout the system. In Plan 9, all system interfaces, including those required for networking and the user interface, are represented through the file system rather than specialized interfaces.Is a very experimental OS, which is loosely based on the original Unix taken to its extremes, only suitable (written for) programmers, at this time. Website:	http://plan9.bell-labs.com/plan9/	http://plan9.bell-labs.com/sources/contrib/miller/9pi.img.gzInitial login details:Username: Password: MoebiusA very compact ARM HF Debian based distribution, it fits in a 1Gb SD card, has auto resizing features to better adapt to your SD card size and uses Raspbian huge repositories for installing everything you need. A wise configuration and a small memory footprint are ideal for a headless machine or for interacting with real word I/O devicesWebsite: http://moebiuslinux.sourceforge.net/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword:  raspiPiBang LinuxPiBang Linux is a Raspbian based distribution. PiBang is inspired by Crunchbang Linux, an i686 and x86_68 Debian based distribution. It comes preconfigured with many helpful scripts and pipemenus as well as a fork of Raspi-config with increases functions such as support for changing the user and hostname. PiBang is also one of the heavier Raspberry Pi distributions boasting a complete package set with favourites such as Abiword, OMXPlayer, GIMP, and VLC all pre-installed. Website: http://www.pibanglinux.org Initial login details:Username: piPassword:  raspberryGentoo Gentoo Linux is a source based rolling-release distribution which emphasizes choice and flexibility. Gentoo ARM aims to be the most up to date and fastest ARM distribution available. Website: http://intelminer.com/raspberrypiInitial login details:Username: rootPassword: piOpenWrt OpenWrt is a highly extensible GNU/Linux distribution for embedded devices. Unlike many other distributions for these routers, OpenWrt is built from the ground up to be a full-featured, easily modifiable operating system for your router. In practice, this means that you can have all the features you need with none of the bloat, powered by a Linux kernel that's more recent than most other distributions.Website:	http://wiki.openwrt.org/toh/raspberry_pi	http://www.zoobab.com/raspberry-pi-openwrtInitial login details:Username: Password:  DedicatedOpenELECOpenELEC (short for "Open Embedded Linux Entertainment Centre") is a free and open source embedded operating system providing a complete media centre software suite that comes with a pre-configured version of XBMC and third-party add-ons with retro video game console emulators and PVR plugins. OpenELEC is an extremely small and very fast booting Linux based distribution.Website: http://openelec.thestateofme.com/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: openelecDarkElecNone of the currently available solutions do a perfect job with running XBMC on the Pi, however OpenELEC comes by far the closest, in spite of it’s locked down nature. This fork aims to remedy the very few flaws in its implementation and to focus 100% on the Pi, while also sticking to the upstream and incorporating its updates. Website: http://darkimmortal.com/category/raspberry-pi/Initial login details:Username: Password: XBian XBian is a small, fast and lightweight media centre distro for the Raspberry Pi, based on a minimal Raspbian image with XBMC.Website: http://xbian.org/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: raspberryRaspbmcRaspbmc is a minimal Linux distribution based on Debian that brings XBMC to your Raspberry Pi. This device has an excellent form factor and enough power to handle media playback, making it an ideal component in a low HTPC setup, yet delivering the same XBMC experience that can be enjoyed on much more costly platforms. Raspbmc is brought to you by the developer of the Crystalbuntu Linux Distribution, which brings XBMC and 1080p decoding to the 1st generation Apple TV.Website: http://www.raspbmc.com/Initial login details:Username: piPassword: raspberryChameleonThis is one for you retro gamers: a Raspbian remix from Carles Oriol that turns your Pi into a whole suitcase-full of emulated hardware, from the Spectrum to a MAME cabinet, via the Oric-1, Atari 2600, Apple II and lots of other stuff besides.Website: http://chameleon.enging.com/Initial root loginUsername: rootPassword: raspberryInitial user loginUsername: pi Password: spectrumElastix VOIP SystemElastix has multiple features and functionalities related with all the services available: IP Telephony, Mail Server, Fax Server, Conferences, Instant Messaging Server, among others. New features, functionalities and Services are added at the development of new versions.Website: http://uelastix.com/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: palosantoInitial web interface loginUsername: adminPassword: palosantoIncredible PiIncredible Pi is a bootable image for the $35 Raspberry Pi. It features Raspbian 7, Asterisk 1.8, and FreePBX 2.10. It includes many of the best features of Incredible PBX including Google Voice for free calling in the U.S. & Canada.Website: http://nerdvittles.com/?p=3026 Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: raspberryRaspberry Pi Thin ClientThin Client project want to create a very low price thin client over Raspberry Pi board! Microsoft RDC, Citrix ICA & VMware View Website: http://rpitc.blogspot.se/Initial login details:Username: Password: Pi PointTurn your Raspberry Pi into a Wireless Access PointWebsite: http://www.pi-point.co.uk/Initial login details:Username: piPassword: raspberryIPFire IPFire is an Open Source firewall distribution for x86 and ARM-based systems. It turns the Raspberry Pi computer into a small router for home networks and very small businesses. As the Raspberry Pi computer comes with only one NIC, it works perfectly as a 3G router without plugging in additional hardware. The generally small system that provides essential services for networks can be enhanced by addons which add new features to IPFire. So the system can be turned into a file server and much more. Website: http://www.ipfire.org/Initial login details:Username: Password: PwnPiPwnPi is a Linux-based penetration testing dropbox distribution for the Raspberry Pi. It currently has 181 network security tools pre-installed to aid the penetration tester. It is built on the Debian squeeze image from the raspberry pi foundation's website and uses Xfce as the window manager Website: http://pwnpi.net/ Initial login details:Username: Password: ha-piThis Debian squeeze image created to perform "pwn plug" type of attacks using Raspberry pi.Website: http://sourceforge.net/p/ha-pi/wiki/Home/Initial login details:Username: rootPassword: piQtonPiQtonPi was originally intended as an end to end platform, enabling a developer to boot straight into a controlled environment which could be deployed to via a single click inside of an associated Qt SDK.Website: http://qt-project.org/wiki/Qt-RaspberryPiInitial login details:Username: rootPassword: rootme